
                             LOLLERSKATES

Lots Of Logs Left Easily Rendered So Knowledgable Admins Time Easily
                                 Saved

                         Log analyzer program

Compares logfiles against a series of regular expressions to filter
out uninteresting bits and email whatever is left to the
administrator. The administator can now increase security and
awareness of what the system is doing without having to read the
entirety of the boring log files which is often impossible.

Tracy R Reed
treed@copilotconsulting.com

Copyright 2006 Tracy Reed & Copilot Consulting

Everyone should review the logs on all of their systems but few
do. Logcheck used to be a great tool for this but it seems to have
fallen into disuse and is no longer maintained. There is a debian
package which seems to be maintained but it is way more complicated
than it needs to be. RedHat comes with something called logwatch but
it tries to do way too much interpretation and summarizing (telling
you how many emails were sent, how many bounces, how many people
logged in) which I usually do not care about. I just want to see if
anything unusual happened. Even swatch seems to be a little more
complicated than it should be and it doesn't have a feature I have
always wanted: macros which make the regex easier to deal with.

So I wrote LOLLERSKATES. It is simple, easy to configure, and has
macros so I can fully match a proper IP address without having to
always type in that huge regex which matches IP's.

TODO list:

Unit tests? It's already written so I don't know if that would serve
much point. I'm not sure how I would written implemented unit tests to
begin with.

Comments are critiques are welcome.

To use it to monitor your logfiles download the tarball, explode it
somewhere reasonable like /usr/local/lollerskates, config
lollerskates_config.py with the logfiles you want to monitor, where
you want results emailed to, etc. You will have to create the dir
where it keeps its state files. Then cron it to run every hour or day
or whatever suits your fancy. I run it hourly. Then you can
progressively add regexes to the ignore.conf file for stuff you don't
want to see anymore.

Download it from:

http://ultraviolet.org/Members/treed/lollerskates/